The Joe Rogan experience.
In fact, this was one of the very important points in,
uh, that Soviet coaches would make that do not force that adaptation. Uh,
David rigged rigor is probably the greatest weightlifter all times. So he is,
uh, oversee Excel world records in several weight classes and just unbelievable
athlete.
So he just made a point that do not force the strength
development, do not force mass development. That's another problem. You start,
it's possible to build muscle fast,
but it's not gonna necessarily very quality muscle. So yes, take your time. You,
and, and this is interesting enough, Joe.
This is what old timers understood.
I'm a fan of, uh, books by all time strong man,
not all of them, of course, but some of them are just remarkable.
Earl Leaderman HES, an American strong man and educator.
He wrote a book back in 1925 called the seekers of strength.
And it's an awesome book.
So you read this book and if you follow the directions in this book from
1925, you will get far superior results.
And from most pop fitness and strength programs,
because people who had some San, some common sense, they were able to,
again, observe what's going on. They were not driven by some slogan. Oh,
one more rep.
Whatever. Yeah. Yeah. The one more rep thing is, uh,
it's very embraced here in America, you know, with, uh,
meat heads, which are my people. The,
the thing about it is that you think that mental toughness is going to push you
past your limits or what your perceived limits are.
And that that's where the real strength happens.
That's where the real growth takes place.
That's a VI, that's a very valid point for, for you mentally.
Mm-hmm, <affirmative> not physically, mentally, but periodically. This is,
is very important point. You have to push the B push the body to the limit,
whether in competition or some other manner mm-hmm <affirmative>,
but for a short period of time and not too often, that's.
Very important. You know who Ronnie Coleman is, right? Yeah. Yeah.
Ronnie Coleman, who was, uh, Mr. Olympia, just, uh, at one point in time,
one of the most impressive and spectacular physiques on earth mm-hmm
<affirmative> is now so injured from
all of his incredible lifts. He was known for lifting enormous,
enormous amounts of weight. And, uh, I mean,
I think when they asked him about if we do anything different,
cause I think he's had, I, I hope I'm not wrong,
but I think more than 11 back surgeries over the, the last few years. Yeah.
He he's essentially herniated every single disc in his back. And, uh,
a series of back operations. That's left him walking with crutches and you know,
it's, it's bad. Um,
but this is the result of this sort of mindset
of a champion. You know, that he.
Was Joe, pardon me? I'm going to interrupt you for a second, please.
The champion has that mindset on the platform, the champion,
whenever the champion is in the gym,
he or she is going to approach this as a, as a work man, pretty much,
this is the plan. This is what I do. So you will find that absolutely.
In, in sports,
you have to be extremely tough and you have to model some of that in training as
well, but in a very, very careful time manner. Yeah. So for instance,
um, top lifters,
power lifters,
they max twice a year at the nationals and at the worlds,
meanwhile, they train hard. They push themselves to do everything right,
but they do not try to squeeze out one extra rep. It just simply will not work.
It does not work. I remember having conversation with Andy Bolton. Andy is,
uh,
the first man to deadlift a thousand pounds and just speak tiger athlete.
If you watch Andy pool in competition, it's just, just unbelievable.
It's a thing of beauty. And I just, Andy was telling me how,
how some lifters he have seen that would just simply try to hang with others,
better lifters in the gym and try to repeat exactly what they do.
And that's what happens after that. Nothing good happens from that. Mm.
You have to be tough when it's time in the gym, you have to do the plan.
And like, for example, um,
let's talk about heavy lifting. Okay. Just heavy singles.
Let's say <affirmative>,
if I'm sure everybody who listens to your program has at what
point of their life decided to up their bench press by going to a
max once a week. I'm sure everybody has. I have you have everybody has.
So how long did it last?
Typically six weeks for beginner and an advanced leave term
might tolerate two or three weeks and that's about it.
So for whatever reasons after that, you know, nervous system starts BI out.
Your endocrine system can keep up and that's it.
So for that reason before the competition,
you might take like a 90% single double or something like that. And
if you look at the longevity of power lifters,
and if you look at longevity of the weightlifters of the Soviet school, uh,
that's very impressive. I'll give you one great example.
So well David rigor himself, who was the champion around, you know,
in the seventies. So he is way he is probably pushing right now, you know,
lives in a farm, works in a farm, but his coach doing great, very healthy,
but his coach that's, that's an even more interesting story. Uh,
Rud of blue failure. He was
probably the oldest to win the Olympics in weightlifting.
He was 36 and he worked in the minds in daytime
and then trained hard. So <inaudible> ethnically,
he so ethnically he's German.
So one of the Germans living in the Soviet union and
eventually when the Soviet fell cook fit to immigrated to Germany.
And so a journalist came to visit him.
And so here is this really spry looking guy fooling around in the garden.
And the journal is asking, pardon me, sir, I speak to your dad.
So here's this guy who is, uh, almost 90 years old,
still looks about 30 years younger who still does jump squats with 90
kilos for sets of 10. And this is an example.
So heavy weights don't have the same longevity,
but that's has more,
that does not have anything to do with the training system that has to do with
the fact this train you put in your system by eating so much, just not so good,
but this guy's have longevity. If you also look at, uh,
the power lifters, most successful power lifters, American power lifters,
Eddie Cohen competed for if I'm not mistaken,
about 30 years at the highest level,
from a very lightweight class to much heavier one,
and he stayed are healthy throughout. He
maybe had one injury and Eddie right now, yours have a after retirement is very,
very healthy.
So you'll find that the mentality of saving this eye of the tiger
for when it matters, as opposed to treating every training day as a competition,
that makes a big difference for performance and for longevity.
It just battles the mindset of always do more, always push harder,
always give your awe, leave everything in the gym. This,
this is the mindset that people have been sort of indoctrinated into. Sure.
That they think that hard work is what really matters, but.
Hard work does matter, but hard work can come in. A lot of different.
It can manifest itself differently.
Would that approach have worked with a guy like Ronnie Coleman because he's a
body builder. So body builders,
obviously you're not talking about competition in sense of being able to lift a
lot of weight. Mm-hmm <affirmative>,
you're talking about just mass acquiring mass.
Well, you know, the body builders from the older era,
like Franco Colombo, uh, very sad that, uh,
Dr. Colomba passed recently, but he was an exceptionally strong man.
Very healthy man.
He he'd swimming. Yeah.
But it was, it was a hard issue that has nothing to do with lifting.
So he was very healthy and very strong till the end. And uh,
if you look at the guys of that generation, they're, you know,
they're doing great. Yeah. And if you look at other body builders, power,
power lift,
let's say body builders who have some kind of a power bodybuilding approach,
these guys have been around longer as well. If you look at the old timers again,
Dave Draper, these guys, oh, Clarence bass, you know, Clarence bass. Sure. Okay.
Super shreded.
Clarence is a friend of mine and Clarence is, well, let's put it this way.
He's uh, not a spring chicken, but he's got absolutely spectacular physi.
He's still staying very strong. Are there recents of discipline?
He, what, how old is he now? He's gotta be in his seventies. Right?
We were pushing.
80. Possibly. Yeah. Yeah.
There he is.
Yep. That's Clarence. He's awesome. That guy's.
Awesome, man. That is crazy.
That picture of him lifting his shirt up with this complete grandpa face
and just super Jack body.
<Affirmative> that? Guy's incredible. Yeah. That's got the,
he knows how to push himself when you need to push himself.
Yeah. Well, he's very, very intelligent that guy, but.
Old top athletes and lifters are very intelligent. Mm. There are some Lukes,
but they don't last long. Right.
I see what you're saying. Yeah. For longevity,
you sort of have to have that sort of intelligent approach. Um,
so do you think a guy like Ronnie Coleman would've be able to achieve the mass
and the size and the, the way he was built with a different strategy?
I can speculate. I don't know, but I can speculate.
But if you look at the muscle mass that have been achieved by heavyweight power
lifters, like Kurt Kowski mm-hmm, <affirmative> look up that guy.
Kurt Kowski Kowski K a R w O
S K I uh,
so if you see that type of development achieved by heavyweight power lifters,
then I don't see why not. Hmm.
And body builders have their own additional techniques.
They still have to their stuff or their separation and whatever it is that you
do. But I think there's a very good chance that he would have.
And if you look at the successful power, like Mike Hern,
for example, that's a very strong guy. He's a power body builder. There we go.
He is car wash. Right? There's.
The size of that guy. <laugh>
oh yeah. He looks like a body, but look at the size of his legs. That is,
that is ridiculous.
Yeah. And that guy just would not fool around with, uh, Peck,
whatever deck and what have you Peck.
Deck. Yeah. You, you say that disdainfully that.
<Laugh> why don't we just say it was.
Respect. A lot of people don't understand what's wrong with it.